test: improve e2e (#4760)
Azure/AgentBaker: e2e/README.md

should first run `make generate` from the root of the AgentBaker repository.**

To run the E2E test suite locally, use `e2e-local.sh`. This script sets up the `go test` command.

Check [config.go](config/config.go) for the default configuration parameters. You can override these parameters by
setting ENV variables.

Create a `.env` file in the `e2e` directory to set environment variables and avoid manual setup each time you run tests. Refer to `.env.sample` for an example.

### Running Specific Tests

Use `TAGS_TO_RUN=` to specify scenarios based on tags. By default, all scenarios run. Multiple tags should be comma-separated and are case-insensitive. Check logs for test tags.

Example:
```bash
TAGS_TO_RUN="os=ubuntu,arch=amd64,wasm=false,gpu=false,imagename=1804gen2containerd" ./e2e-local.sh
```

To exclude scenarios, use `TAGS_TO_SKIP=`. Scenarios with any specified tags will be skipped (this logic is different to TAGS_TO_RUN).

To run a specific test, use the test name:
```bash
TAGS_TO_RUN="name=Test_azurelinuxv2" ./e2e-local.sh
# or
go test -run Test_azurelinuxv2 -v -timeout 20m
```

### Debugging

> Set `KEEP_VMSS` to retain bootstrapped VMs for debugging. This will include the private SSH key in each scenario's log bundle. When using the flag, please ensure to run only test you need to debug, as the VMs will not be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set `KEEP_VMSS=true` to retain bootstrapped VMs for debugging. Setting this will also have the VM's private SSH key included in each scenario's log bundle. When using this flag, please ensure to run only test you need to debug, as the VMs will not be
```

deleted after the test run.

### Running Tests Manually

Run tests with custom arguments after setting required environment variables:

```bash
go test -parallel 100 -timeout 90m -v -count 1
```

Important `go test` flags:
- `-v`: Verbose output
- `-parallel 100`: Run 100 tests in parallel, default is limited to the number of cores
- `-timeout 90m`: Set timeout, default is 10 minutes which is often exceeded
- `-count 1`: Disable test caching

### Cleanup

Azure resources are deleted periodically by an external garbage collector. Locally stopped tests attempt a graceful shutdown to clean up resources. Old VMs are deleted on startup unless created with `KEEP_VMSS=true`.

## IDE Configuration

### Global Settings

Set `GOFLAGS="-timeout=30m -parallel=100"` in your shell configuration file.

### GoLand

In **Run > Edit Configurations...**, set `-timeout=60m -parallel=100` in the Go tool arguments field.

### VSCode

Add to `settings.json`:

```json
{
  "go.testFlags": ["-parallel=100"],
  "go.testTimeout": "30m"
}
```

## Package Structure

> The top-level package of the Golang E2E implementation is named `e2e_test` and is entirely separate from all AgentBaker packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The top-level package of the Golang E2E implementation is named `e2e` and is entirely separate from all AgentBaker packages.
```

> The primary testing function is located in [suite_test.go](suite_test.go), which is run by `go test`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The definitions and entry points for each test scenario, ran by `go test`, are located in [scenario_test.go](scenario_test.go).
```

## E2E VHDs.

Node images are pushed to Shared Image Gallery (SIG). Each image is tagged with branch name and build id.
By default E2E tests use latest version of images from SIG with `branch=refs/heads/master` tag.

## Using VHD Images from Custom ADO Builds

Set `SIG_VERSION_TAG_NAME` and `SIG_VERSION_TAG_VALUE` to specify custom VHD builds:

```bash
SIG_VERSION_TAG_NAME=buildId SIG_VERSION_TAG_VALUE=123456789 TAGS_TO_RUN="os=ubuntu2204" ./e2e-local.sh
```

### Registering New VHD SKUs

> When adding tests for a new VHD image, ensure to add a delete-lock to prevent the garbage collector from deleting the image version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Isn't it's true? I think we still need to have at least a single locked version for each image

validators can be used to assert on numerous types of properties of the live VM, such as the live file system and kernel
state.

You can find all implemented scenarios in the [scenario](scenario/) pacakge within files prefixed with `scenario_`.
The `Scenario` struct definition can be found in [scenario/types.go](scenario/types.go).

> ### Implementation

Reviewer: I'd opt for keeping this section around and updating it with correct instructions

Author: I thought about it. And my current suggestion would be "copy any test and make some tweaks".

Which is probably isn't really helpful and can be wrong at some stage in the future.
